So let's try Podman now.
We're gonna move on from
Buildah into Podman.
Which is the next section here.
So now I want to run this container and
I want it to expose port 3000 just like I
was doing Docker run node web service,
right?
So here, you'll notice that podman is also
installed on this particular container.
But if you need to install it, I left you
instructions on how to do that as well.
So what I'm going to do here is
I'm going to say podman run,
this one you have to give
it a cgroup manager, right?
For the control groups because it
doesn't necessarily have one by default.
Whereas Docker does, so
I'm gonna say cgroup-manager, cgroupfs.
And then I'm gonna tell it -p 3000:3000,
which is going to expose that port for us.
And then I'm gonna tell it to
look on localhost/my-app-buildah.
Otherwise if I don't tell it the local
host part, it's gonna go out and try and
find on Docker Hub or something like that.
Okay and then this will have Podman
execute this container for us.
And there you go.
You can see that this is now running.
If I click here,
Open Link And there you go.
This is running our node service
inside of that Buildah container,
which I exposed that port.
And then Podman is actually the one
executing that container within the Docker
container.
I recognize that there's a lot
of levels to this, right?
Which is kind of the nature of the beast,
sorry.
I'm not telling you that Buildah and
Podman are any better than Docker.
I'm not telling you that Docker is
any better than Buildah and Podman.
There are various different use cases
where one might be better for you.
And keep in mind that there's more than
just Buildah and Podman and Docker.
There's also things like Rocket, right,
Rocket's another one
that does similar things.
And it's from CoreOS and
it works really well.
There's a bunch of different engines for
containers.
If you're just getting starting out,
which I'm guessing you are,
if you're watching this course,
I'd recommend sticking to Docker.
The nice thing about Docker
is it's been around for so
long and there's so many people
using it that you can Google for
anything and
it's going to be on the Internet.
Someone else is going to have your problem
and it's gonna be able to be fixed, right?
Whereas Buildah and Podman,
one, they're still quite new.
So they're still changing a lot.
And there's just not as much
documentation out there for it.
So keep that in mind when you're choosing.
So something else that's pretty cool,
that I think is pretty cool.
You can actually use Buildah,
so just pretend for
a second that I was on a Linux computer or
I was here in WSL or something like that.
I can actually have Buildah push into
my Docker registry, my local one.
And then I can use Docker to
execute the Buildah container which
is really cool too.
So again, those things work really
well together side by side.
So I actually left the command in there.
If you're working with Linux,
and I'll show you here.
Down here in Podman.
So if you ran this and
you had Docker on the same level, right,
this wouldn't work in my Mac OS one right
now because it's within a container.
So it actually can't see Docker.
If I say buildah push
localhost/my-app-buildah
docker-daemon-my-app-buildah:latest.
This would actually push it
into my Docker container.
I think what you need to do is you need to
expose the Docker daemon
inside of the container.
So I'm gonna exit out of this.
We've gotta make this
even more complicated.
We're gonna say
-v /var/run/docker.sock
:/var/run/docker.sock.
Okay, now I should be able
to come here and say,
Back here in Buildah cuz I killed
all the the registry that it had.
So I have to rebuild
the buildah container.
So I'm gonna say buildah,
bud -f ./Dockerfile
Where am I?
I have to be inside of a source.
Okay, buildah bud -f
./Dockerfile -t
my-app-buildah..
Okay, that'll build
my Docker container.
And now, I actually realize
that I gave it a volume.
So it actually did keep this between runs.
But nonetheless, okay,
that should all work.
That's all stored.
And then here,
it should work if I say, buildah push,
right, cuz we can push
it out to a registry.
Localhost/my-app-buildah, so
I'm pushing that container.
And we're going to push it to
the docker-dae:my app-buildah:latest.
So now because I opened that connection,
that bind mount between my Docker host and
into the container.
Now Buildah can actually
push out of the container
into my local Docker registry
of Docker desktop running.
And then I'm going to be able to
execute this buildah container
outside of the inside of
the host with Docker.
So what you see here this is
actually it copying the container,
out of the container and into Docker.
This isn't going to the network, right,
this is just staying within my container.
So now I should be able to say,
docker run, and notice
this is just inside of my MAC, right,
I'm not inside of the container now.
-it my-app-buildah
bash and here you go.
I am now inside of the container running
Docker that I built with Buildah
and same thing here.
If I say my-app-buildah and
I say -p 3000:3000.
This should execute my node.
Something's already bound on that.
So let's just say 3001.
So now if I come over here and
say local host 3001.
Now I'm actually running the node server
that I built with the Buildah tool chain,
but I'm using Docker to do it.
So this is kind of proving my point
that Buildah does not build Docker
containers it builts OCI containers,
right?
But they both work interchangeably.
And I could build a Docker container.
And I could use Podman
to execute that as well.
So that's pretty cool.
I did not expect that to work.
I'm gonna re-emphasize the point
that someone might ask,
why would I use Buildah and
Podman over a Docker right now?
And I think the real strongest
reason is to not use Docker.
And some people might have strong opinions
of why they would not wanna use Docker.
I don't necessarily know what they are.
But it does encourage healthy competition
to use some of these competitors and
not be locked into one ecosystem.
So,not that I think Docker are bad people,
I think actually they're doing really
great things and
they're good members of the community so.